README.md, before:

# photo_viewer

![](https://github.com/kumamotone/photo_viewer/raw/main/example.gif)

A versatile Flutter library for displaying and interacting with images in your app.

## Features

- Image zoom with pinch gestures
- Double-tap zoom functionality
- Vertical swipe to dismiss
- Multiple image viewing with pagination
- Custom overlay support
- Hero animation support

## Installation

To use this plugin, add install_plugin as a dependency in your pubspec.yaml file. For example:

```
dependencies:
  photo_viewer: '^0.0.2'
```

## Basic Usage

### Single Image Display

The simplest way to use PhotoViewer is to display a single image:

```dart
PhotoViewerImage(
  imageUrl: 'assets/your_image.jpg',
)

PhotoViewerImage(
  imageUrl: 'https://example.com/your_image.jpg',
)
```

This creates a tappable image that opens a full-screen viewer when tapped.

### Multiple Images Display

To display multiple images with swipe navigation:

```dart
PhotoViewerMultipleImage(
  imageUrls: [
    'assets/image1.jpg', 
    'https://example.com/image2.jpg',
    'assets/image3.jpg'
  ],
  index: 0, // Initial image index
  id: 'unique_id', // Unique identifier for Hero animation
)
```

### Direct Display Function

For more control, use the `showPhotoViewer` function:

```dart
showPhotoViewer(
  context: context,
  builders: imageUrls.map<WidgetBuilder>((url) {
    return (BuildContext context) => Image.asset(
          url,
          width: MediaQuery.of(context).size.width,
          fit: BoxFit.contain,
        );
  }).toList(),
  initialPage: 0,
);
```

## Advanced Usage

### Custom Overlays

Add custom UI elements on top of the image viewer:

```dart
PhotoViewerImage(
  imageUrl: 'assets/your_image.jpg',
  overlayBuilder: (context) => Stack(
    children: [
      YourCustomCommentInput(),
      YourCustomCloseButton(),
    ],
  ),
  showDefaultCloseButton: false, // Hide the default close button
)
```

### Gallery with Thumbnails

Create a gallery-style image viewer with thumbnails:

```dart
PhotoViewerMultipleImage(
  imageUrls: imagePaths,
  index: currentIndex,
  id: 'gallery',
  onPageChanged: (index) {
    // Update your state with the current index
    setState(() {
      currentIndex = index;
    });
  },
  onJumpToPage: (jump) {
    // Store the jump function to programmatically change pages
    jumpToPage = jump;
  },
  overlayBuilder: (context) => YourCustomThumbnails(
    imagePaths: imagePaths,
    selectedIndex: currentIndex,
    onTap: (index) {
      // Use the stored jump function to navigate to the selected thumbnail
      jumpToPage(index);
    },
  ),
)
```

### Manga/Book Reader Implementation

Create a comic book or manga reader with custom page controls:

```dart
showPhotoViewer(
  context: context,
  builders: pages.map<WidgetBuilder>((page) {
    return (BuildContext context) => Image.asset(
          page,
          width: MediaQuery.of(context).size.width,
          fit: BoxFit.contain,
        );
  }).toList(),
  showDefaultCloseButton: false,
  enableVerticalDismiss: false, // Disable vertical swipe to dismiss
  initialPage: currentPage,
  onPageChanged: (index) {
    // Update your state with the current page
  },
  onJumpToPage: (jump) {
    // Store the jump function for page navigation
  },
  overlayBuilder: (context) => Stack(
    children: [
      YourCustomCloseButton(),
      YourCustomPageControls(
        currentPage: currentPage,
        totalPages: totalPages,
        onPageChanged: (index) {
          // Use the stored jump function to navigate to the selected page
        },
      ),
    ],
  ),
)
```

## Customization Options

PhotoViewer provides various customization options:

- `minScale`/`maxScale`: Set the minimum and maximum zoom scale
- `showDefaultCloseButton`: Toggle the default close button visibility
- `enableVerticalDismiss`: Enable or disable vertical swipe to dismiss

## Example

Check out the example project in the `example` folder for complete implementation samples including:

- Basic image viewer
- Social media feed with image grids
- Gallery with thumbnails
- Comment overlay
- Manga/book reader

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/kumamotone/photo_viewer/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

feat: expose some GestureDetector properties in PhotoViewerImage
Add sample and update README documentation

README.md, after:

# photo_viewer

![](https://github.com/kumamotone/photo_viewer/raw/main/example.gif)

A versatile Flutter library for displaying and interacting with images in your app.

## Features

- Image zoom with pinch gestures
- Double-tap zoom functionality
- Vertical swipe to dismiss
- Multiple image viewing with pagination
- Custom overlay support
- Hero animation support
- Support for asset, network, and file images

## Installation

To use this plugin, add install_plugin as a dependency in your pubspec.yaml file. For example:

```
dependencies:
  photo_viewer: '^0.0.2'
```

## Basic Usage

### Single Image Display

The simplest way to use PhotoViewer is to display a single image:

```dart
PhotoViewerImage(
  imageUrl: 'assets/your_image.jpg',
)

PhotoViewerImage(
  imageUrl: 'https://example.com/your_image.jpg',
)
```

This creates a tappable image that opens a full-screen viewer when tapped.

### Multiple Images Display

To display multiple images with swipe navigation:

```dart
PhotoViewerMultipleImage(
  imageUrls: [
    'assets/image1.jpg', 
    'https://example.com/image2.jpg',
    'assets/image3.jpg'
  ],
  index: 0, // Initial image index
  id: 'unique_id', // Unique identifier for Hero animation
)
```

### Direct Display Function


`PhotoViewerImage` also supports the same gesture callbacks as PhotoViewerImage:

```dart
PhotoViewerImage(
  imageUrls: imageList,
  index: 0,
  id: 'gallery',
  onLongPress: () => print('Long pressed!'),
  onDoubleTap: () => print('Double tapped!'),
)
```

The `PhotoViewerImage` widget handles file images, network images, and asset images, and also exposes properties such as long press and double tap. However, if you want more detailed customization, please refer to the `PhotoViewerImage` implementation and call the `showPhotoViewer` function directly.

```dart
showPhotoViewer(
  context: context,
  builders: imageUrls.map<WidgetBuilder>((url) {
    return (BuildContext context) => Image.asset(
          url,
          width: MediaQuery.of(context).size.width,
          fit: BoxFit.contain,
        );
  }).toList(),
  initialPage: 0,
);
```

## Advanced Usage

### Custom Overlays

Add custom UI elements on top of the image viewer:

```dart
PhotoViewerImage(
  imageUrl: 'assets/your_image.jpg',
  overlayBuilder: (context) => Stack(
    children: [
      YourCustomCommentInput(),
      YourCustomCloseButton(),
    ],
  ),
  showDefaultCloseButton: false, // Hide the default close button
)
```

### Gallery with Thumbnails

Create a gallery-style image viewer with thumbnails:

```dart
PhotoViewerMultipleImage(
  imageUrls: imagePaths,
  index: currentIndex,
  id: 'gallery',
  onPageChanged: (index) {
    // Update your state with the current index
    setState(() {
      currentIndex = index;
    });
  },
  onJumpToPage: (jump) {
    // Store the jump function to programmatically change pages
    jumpToPage = jump;
  },
  overlayBuilder: (context) => YourCustomThumbnails(
    imagePaths: imagePaths,
    selectedIndex: currentIndex,
    onTap: (index) {
      // Use the stored jump function to navigate to the selected thumbnail
      jumpToPage(index);
    },
  ),
)
```

### Manga/Book Reader Implementation

Create a comic book or manga reader with custom page controls:

```dart
showPhotoViewer(
  context: context,
  builders: pages.map<WidgetBuilder>((page) {
    return (BuildContext context) => Image.asset(
          page,
          width: MediaQuery.of(context).size.width,
          fit: BoxFit.contain,
        );
  }).toList(),
  showDefaultCloseButton: false,
  enableVerticalDismiss: false, // Disable vertical swipe to dismiss
  initialPage: currentPage,
  onPageChanged: (index) {
    // Update your state with the current page
  },
  onJumpToPage: (jump) {
    // Store the jump function for page navigation
  },
  overlayBuilder: (context) => Stack(
    children: [
      YourCustomCloseButton(),
      YourCustomPageControls(
        currentPage: currentPage,
        totalPages: totalPages,
        onPageChanged: (index) {
          // Use the stored jump function to navigate to the selected page
        },
      ),
    ],
  ),
)
```

## Customization Options

PhotoViewer provides various customization options:

- `minScale`/`maxScale`: Set the minimum and maximum zoom scale
- `showDefaultCloseButton`: Toggle the default close button visibility
- `enableVerticalDismiss`: Enable or disable vertical swipe to dismiss

## Example

Check out the example project in the `example` folder for complete implementation samples including:

- Basic image viewer
- Social media feed with image grids
- Gallery with thumbnails
- Comment overlay
- Manga/book reader
- Custom gesture handling examples

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/kumamotone/photo_viewer/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.
